---
layout: default
title: Hello, World!
excerpt: My first post from Jekyll! Learn a little bit about me and this blog.
---
Hello, World! This is my first post from my new blog. This blog is run using Jekyll. If you were not following my [blogspot](http://theuniverseisahypersphere.blogspot.com/) account, I am a student at LASA High School and I am currently taking independent study computer science. In my spare time, I do QuizBowl and Aikido, and I am also an Anime nerd. In the future, I will be making posts about my progress on various projects, all of which can be found on my [github page](https://github.com/NielsKornerup). Some of you may be wondering, "Why is this blog called The Tesseract?" For starters, a Tesseract is a fourth-dimensional cube, meaning that its shadow would be a cube. I first became interested in fourth dimensional space when I read A Wrinkle in Time by Madeleine L'engle in sixth grade. At one point, I decided that tesseracts are cool, so I decided to use an image of one for my photo on Gmail. As I created new accounts on diffrenet websites, such as Facebook and Github, I decided that I should make the tesseract my symbol. There are often many ways to do the same thing in computer science (just look up all the diffrenet types of sorts that exist, and you will see what I mean), but the best ways to do things often require thinking outside of the box. As time progresses, I hope to write posts about these types of situations, as I am fascinated by algorithms.
