---
layout: default
title: Updating Gravity
excerpt: While studying for my physics APs, I take another look at my gravity simulator.
---
I took 3 AP exams this week, and spent no time in independent study doing computer science. Despite this, I have spent some time in my other classes and at home to work on my gravity simulator. I have been reading Feynman lectures, and I came across his lecture about gravity. Inspired by this, I decided that I should work on touching up my gravity simulator. I added bounds for the user supplied values for gravity's strength and number of particles, and I patched up an error in my algorithm. After looking at this, I realized that my HTML was coded before I really understood bootstrap, so I also rewrote that, making a larger bounding box for the simulator. Now that my gravity simulator is updated, I started making a [Brownian motion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownian_motion) simulator. I have finished a prototype, but I will be messing around with values before I put it online. I took my gravitational simulator, removed the force of gravity, and modified it such that one molecule is larger than the others, and only that one is displayed. The user can change the number of molecules, or the temperature of the gas and watch the effects on the particle. I plan to add a way to trace the particle's path, and I am looking forward to getting this online soon. After finishing it, I plan to work on updating my charges and elastic collision simulators.
