---
layout: default
title: Sick
excerpt: I was sick last week, and thus did not get much done.
---
Last Tuesday, I got a 100 degree fever, and stayed at home the next two days. On Thursday I had to return to pick up homework for the three day weekend, and did not feel up to speed. As a result, I got next to no work done this week. I was able to fix the error that I had discussed in my previous post, but other than that, I have not been doing any coding this last week. As I mentioned in my first post, I like anime, and as I had plenty of time a home, not feeling awake enough to do homework nor strong enough to do something physical, I watched a lot of Fullmetal Alchemist Brotherhood, the highest rated anime on [myanimelist.net](http://myanimelist.net). The series is intense, dark, and contains a well developed plot. Spending lots of time at home also gave me plenty of time to think about the universe and philosophy. I did a lot of research into relativity, and the concept of a schwarzschild black hole. I still need to learn liner algebra before I can fully understand the math behind the theories (as I have found them online), but I am beginning to understand how they theoretically work. I initially was looking into relativity because I was excited by a science fiction anime, Steins; gate, where the protagonists use a time machine to change the past. I asked my physics teacher about the current theories about time travel, as I have heard that it is impossible due to the second law of thermodynamics, as well as the fact that we have never seen someone from the future. According to him, some of the solutions of Einstein's theory of relativity include the possibility of space time folding in on itself, allowing the creation of a wormhole that could link to a past time in the universe. I also struggled a little bit with existentialism, thinking about scientist Carl Sagan's famous "Pale Blue Dot" speech. While I may have been sick, I was still a nerd, and spent my time doing nerdy things. I am looking forward to telling you about what I get done next week!
