---
layout: default
title: Settings
excerpt: I add setting to protocharts.
---
Protocharts is currently working, and should be ready to release. I have been working on adding settings that allow users to change the colors for certain subjects, define a user-name, and delete all of their data in a subject. I create a set of rows, one per subject, where users can insert a hex color. I then parse this to make sure the entered value is a hex color, and then pass it on to the server. The server then verifies that it has received a hex color and not an SQL injection, and then modifies the users table to set the corresponding color. I did something likewise for verifying usernames, which can only contain text and numbers. To delete data, I send a request to the server to delete data for a user and a subject. The server then deletes the row in my users table that corresponds to that subject. All of this code is currently working, but I need to fix an error where users who currently have no data can edit the sample user's colors/delete its data. I also still need to come up with a way to fix the order in which subjects are presented on the chart, as the way that I currently do it makes it such that the most recently modified column becomes the first one. These should be quick fixes, but I have been really busy lately with other things, and thus have not been able to get around to it. I have also been messing around with bootstrap, and have redesigned the web page a little bit, using the column feature to place text and my chart on the same line.
