---
layout: default
title: Finishing the Aster Chart
excerpt: I finish my client and server side code and mess with colors.
---
Since my last post, I have finished the code to connect to the database, the code to communicate between the server and the client, and I have found the time to redesign my blog! The current version of the project can be viewed [here](http://dry-wildwood-8809.herokuapp.com/). As I am by no means an art guru, when designing my Aster chart, I searched on-line for what people rated to be "good" colors, and then used them in a random order to create my chart. After finishing the backbone of the code, I was waiting to here what my next step would be, so I decided to devote some time to colors. Originally the selected section would turn a red orange color, and the points earned would also be that same color. On the recommendation of my younger sister, Eva Kornerup, I tried  highlighting the currently selected section green, but I decided that it did not work to well. After that, I received a recommendation from my friend [Arthur Pachachura](https://github.com/smo-key) to not highlight the currently selected slice, but instead to just change the point color to that of the current slice. I implemented this, but some of the colors that I had selected were too dark, so I had to find colors that worked well together and were brighter. Honestly, I am proud of the color pallet that I ended up with, as I am by no means a graphic designer.

At this point, the next step will be to learn Mozilla's Persona to handle login, and I will be designing a website using something like twitter bootstrap so that everyone can view the charts for the top players. I am looking forward to this part of the project, as it will be really cool once finished. There is still a long way to go, but I am looking forward to working on this part of the project!
